h1. titanium-jasmine

*titanium-jasmine* provides testing for "Appcelerator's Titanium Mobile":http://www.appcelerator.com/products/titanium-mobile-application-development/ applications using "Pivotal's Jasmine":http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/ as the core testing framework.

h2. How it works

"Titanium Mobile":http://www.appcelerator.com/products/titanium-mobile-application-development/ translates your hard won JavaScript skills into native applications that perform and look just like they were written in Objective-C (iPhone and iPad) or Java (Android).

"Jasmine":http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/ is a "BDD-style":http://behaviour-driven.org framework for JavaScript that makes your tests look awesome:

<pre>describe("titanium-jasmine", function() {
  it("should help you develop titanium applications", function() {
    expect(yourTests).toBe('awesome');
  });
});</pre>

*titanium-jasmine* puts together "Jasmine":http://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/ and "Titanium Mobile":http://www.appcelerator.com/products/titanium-mobile-application-development/, so you can write Jasmine tests that will run inside your iPhone, iPad and Android applications. *titanium-jasmine* is a *really* simple testing framework that will help you test your "Titanium Mobile":http://www.appcelerator.com/products/titanium-mobile-application-development/ applications properly.

h2. How to start the project

Download the source code, go to the project root and type:

<pre>$ make test</pre>

To run the application without executing the tests, go to project root and type:

<pre>$ make run</pre>

You don't have to import the project on Titanium Developer. You can do that if you want, but I prefer to start from the command line. If you want to do this in your project too, just copy "Makefile":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/blob/master/Makefile and the "bin":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/tree/master/bin directory to your project.

h2. How use in your projects

This project comes with a sample application located in the *SampleApp* directory. You can inspect this sample app to understand how the testing structure works.

To use this in your projects, just copy the *SampleApp/Resources/test* folder and modify the files accordingly.

Here are some details about some key files and directories:

* "SampleApp/Resources/test/lib":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/tree/master/SampleApp/Resources/test/lib contains Jasmine library and the reporter that displays tests output on the application.

* _SampleApp/Resources/test/enabled.js_ is the file that controls if the application is in "test mode" or not. This file does not exist in the repository because it is created by the "make" script. When you start the application with the "make" command, this file will be created containing the configuration to start the test runner or not. If you want to know more about this, take a look at the "Makefile":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/blob/master/Makefile file in the project root.

* "SampleApp/Resources/test/tests.js":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/blob/master/SampleApp/Resources/test/tests.js contains the test startup code. You will have to add code to include all your test scripts in this file.

* "SampleApp/Resources/test/test_main.js":https://github.com/guilhermechapiewski/titanium-jasmine/blob/master/SampleApp/Resources/test/tests.js is a sample file that contains the actual tests. You can (should) create as many files as you want, just remind to import all the modules on *tests.js*.
